.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BATTERY-STATS 5 "September 23, 2002"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
battery-stats \- collected battery statistics
.SH DESCRIPTION
The battery-stats contains statistics about battery charge over time, as
collected by the
.B battery-stats-collector
(8) daemon.
.SH FORMAT
Each line in the file represents one sample and is of the form:
.ce
<seconds> <charge%> <powermode> <UTC-date> <UTC-time>
separated by spaces and terminated by a newline.
.PP
Where:
.TP
.B seconds
is the number of seconds since 1st Jan 1970 00:00:00 UTC
.TP
.B charge%
is the battery charge a number between 0 and 100
.TP
.B powermode
indicates the power mode:
.RS 16
.B 0
A/C off
.br
.B 1
On battery
.br
.B 2
On backup power
.RE
.TP
.B UTC-date
a human-readable date in the format YYYY/MM/DD. Note that this is in UTC,
not the local or system timezone.
.TP
.B UTC-time
a human-readable time in the format HH:MM:SS (using a 24-hour clock). Note
that this is in UTC, not the local or system timezone.
.TP
.B minutes-left
is the BIOS estimate of how many minutes of running time the battery would
provide.  This may be unreliable, depending on the BIOS through which it
was collected.
.SH EXAMPLE
A battery under charge might result in the following samples:
.RS
1032651245 27 1 2002/09/21 23:34:05 94
.br
1032651275 28 1 2002/09/21 23:34:35 97
.br
1032651305 29 1 2002/09/21 23:35:05 100
.br
1032651335 30 1 2002/09/21 23:35:35 103
.br
1032651365 30 1 2002/09/21 23:36:05 106
.RE
.SH FILES
The default set-up is to save battery statistics in /var/log and rotate the
logs weekly, which results in this set of files:
.br
.I /var/log/battery-stats
- current (most recent) statistics
.br
.I /var/log/battery-stats.[0-9]+
- less recent statistics
.br
.I /var/log/battery-stats.[0-9]+.gz
- ancient statistics
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR battery-graph (1),
.BR battery-stats-collector (8).
.SH AUTHOR
Karl E. Jorgensen <karl@jorgensen.com>
