.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BATTERY-STATS-COLLECTOR 8 "October 30, 2012"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.

.SH NAME
battery-stats-collector \- Collect statistics about battery charge

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B battery-stats-collector
.RI [ option ] " "  ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Does exactly as it says on the tin - it will collect information from the APM subsystem and write it to a log file.
.PP
Normally battery-stats-collector will be invoked by the system startup scripts.

.SH OPTIONS
battery-stats follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options
starting with two dashes (`-').
.TP
.B \-o \fPFILE\fB, \-\-output \fPFILE
Append statistics to the given file. The default filename is
.B /var/log/battery-stats
.TP
.B \-i \fPSECS\fB, \-\-interval=\fPSECS
Sampling intervals in seconds. If not specified, stats will be collected every 30 seconds.
.TP
.B \-F \fPCOUNT\fB, \-\-flush=\fPCOUNT
Flushes data to the log file every COUNT samples. A value of zero turns
off flushing altogether. If left unspecified, battery-stats-collector will
assume a value of 1, i.e. flush at every write. Setting the value too low will
tend to keep the disk spinning (and use battery needlessly). Setting the value
too high will loose statistics in case of an improper shutdown.
.br
Note that since battery-stats-collector uses the standard Ansi C library, data
will still be flushed periodically (regardless of this setting) once the buffer
fills up. The size of the buffer is platform dependent, but 4Kb and 8Kb seem
pretty normal.
.TP
.B \-b \fPNUM\fB, \-\-battery\-num=\fPNUM
Read information about battery number NUM. (In case you have multiple batteries installed).
.TP
.B \-1, \-\-once
Only collect a single sample and exit. The default is to loop continiously.
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-ignore\-missing\-battery
Keeps quiet about missing batteries. This stops the warnings on stderr/syslog that would otherwise occur when the battery is missing.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-syslog
Log error messages to syslog, rather than stderr. Note that messages regarding invalid command line parameters will still go to stderr.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show version of battery-stats-collector and exit.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options and exit.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /var/log/battery-stats
Default file for writing battery charge samples to.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR battery-graph (1)
.br
Newer versions of this program may (or may not) be available at
.IR http://karl.jorgensen.com/battery-stats

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written initially written by Karl E. Jorgensen <karl@jorgensen.com>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
.br
Adapted by Antonio Radici <antonio@dyne.org> to include
libacpi and autotools support, see History for details.
.br
Kevin Funk <kevin@kfunk.org> took over maintainership in 2012.
