.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BATTERY-GRAPH 1 "September 22, 2002"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.SH NAME
battery-graph \- Show a graph of the battery charge
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B battery-graph
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ files ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Show a graph of the battery charge over time.
.PP
The files given are assumed to contain battery statistics in the
battery-stats(5) format. If no files are specified, the default log files
will be used.
.PP
The options can be used for displaying a different interval. An interval is defined in terms of a \fBfrom\fP timestamp, a \fBto\fP timestamp and a \fBduration\fP. By specifying any two, the third will be calculated automatically. A missing duration will be defaulted to 3 hours.
.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
.TP
.B \-g \fRgeometry\fB, \-\-geometry \fRgeometry
Sets the X Windows geometry of the graph. This disables text mode. See X(7)
for how to specify the geometry.
.TP
.B \-D \fRdisplay\fB, \-\-display \fRdisplay
Shows the graph on the given display. The same effect can be achieved
by setting the DISPLAY environment variable. This disables text
mode. See X(7) for valid values.
.TP
.B \-\-title \fbstring
Sets the title of the graph window. By default this will be "Battery
Graph". If this is set to the empty string, gnuplot(1) will be allowed set
the window title - this can be useful if you want your ~/.Xdefaults to take
effect for this.
.TP
.B \-f \fRdate\fB, \-\-from \fRdate
Specifies the start date/time for the graph. This accepts exactly the same date/time specifications as the
.B date
(1) command - see examples below or the Texinfo manual for date for details.
.TP
.B \-t \fRdate\fB, \-\-to \fRdate
Specifies the ending date/time for the graph. This accepts exactly the same date/time specifications as the
.B date
(1) command - see examples below or the Texinfo manual for date for details.
.TP
.B \-s \fRdate\fB, \-\-since \fRdate
Shorthand for \-\-from \fIdate\fR \-\-to now
.TP
.B \-d \fRduration\fB, \-\-duration \fRduration
Specifies the duration for the graph. This can be given in units of seconds,
hours, days or weeks by suffixing the number with 's' (seconds), 'm' (minutes),
\&'h' (hours), 'd' (days) or 'w' (weeks).
.br
.br
Units cannot be combined - e.g. '1d6h' will not be valid, whereas '30h' is
OK. If no unit is specified, minutes will be assumed.
.TP
.B \-\-text
Shows the graph in text mode on stdout. The resulting size of the graph is determined by the values of the environment variables.
.B LINES
and
.B COLUMNS
(failing that, the output from
.B tput
will be used). This is the default when the environment variable DISPLAY is not set.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Show the last 2 hours:
$ battery-graph \-\-duration 2h
.TP
.B Show the time since mid day:
$ battery-graph \-\-from 12:00 \-\-to now
.br
or
.br
$ battery-graph \-\-since 12:00
.TP
.B Show the hour before last:
$ battery-graph \-\-from '2 hours ago' \-\-duration 1h
.TP
.B Show the 6 hours after noon:
$ battery-graph \-\-from 12:00 \-\-duration 6h
.br
or
.br
$ battery-graph \-\-from 12:00 \-\-to 18:00
.TP
.B Show the last 6 hours
$ battery-graph \-\-from '6 hours ago'
.br
or
.br
$ battery-graph \-\-since '6 hours ago'
.TP
.B Show the last 30 minutes in text mode:
$ battery-graph \-\-duration 30 \-\-text
.TP
.B Show statistics for Tuesday last week
$ battery-graph \-\-duration 24h \-\-from 'tuesday last week'
.br
or
.br
$ battery-graph \-\-duration 1d \-\-from 'tuesday last week'
.TP
.B Prove that the future hasn't happened yet:
$ battery-graph \-\-from yesterday \-\-to tomorrow
.TP
.B Another way of wasting CPU cycles:
$ battery-graph /dev/null
.SH EXIT STATUS
battery-graph depends on
.B gnuplot
(1) to give the correct exit status.
.SH FILES
If no files are given on the command line, batter-graph reads from
.I /var/log/battery-stats
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DISPLAY
If this variable is not set, \-\-text will be defaulted.
.TP
.B LINES / COLUMNS
Determines the size of the graph in text mode.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If there are no statistics available for the period chosen, an empty graph will result.
.SH NOTES
There is no requirement for the
.I from
time to be earlier than the
.I to
time - if so, the X axis will be reversed. Similar results can be achieved using a negative duration.
.PP
Also: battery-stat is quite happy to list statistics in the future; stupid, but
obedient.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Karl E. Jorgensen <karl@jorgensen.com>, for the
Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
.SH SEE ALSO
battery-stats (5),
.br
date (1),
.br
battery-stats-collector (8)
.br
Newer versions of this program may (or may not) be available at
.IR http://karl.jorgensen.com/battery-stats
.\"	vim:set textwidth=75:
